################################################# Types of Dreams #################################################
[1] : Daydreams
[2] : Lucid Dreams
[3] : Nightmares
[4] : Recurring Dreams
[5] : Prophetic Dreams
[6] : Life Changing Dreams

# Daydreams

You spend an average of 70-120 minutes a day, daydreaming or fantasizing from a perspective that transcends normal perception. 
Between consciousness and the sleep state is an area that allows the imagination to wander. As your level of awareness decreases,
you lose your sense of self. You may revisit the past, or explore the future, and in doing so, approach the border of the 
dreamscape. All the while, consciousness keeps pulling you back into the present.

# Lucid Dreams

Lucid dreams occur when you ‘wake up’ while dreaming. Sometimes this sudden sense of knowing you are dreaming allows you to do 
fantastic things like fly over the houses you see. Many people actually wake themselves up within the dream to remain in this 
lucid state to explore how they can influence dreams. This ability to achieve the lucid dream state is an important initiation 
into mastering the power of thought and its ability to influence events.

# Nightmares

The nightmare often causes you to wake up in a state of panic with your heart racing. Not wanting to go back to sleep, the memory
of the dream appears all too real. Sometimes a dream can reflect actual trauma or an unresolved crisis, although the nightmare is
always a WAKE UP CALL to learn to let go. Whether you are attempting to overcome a real life crisis, or to transcend non-rational
fear, dreaming is a ‘safe place’ that allows these difficult ideas to be explored. Perhaps you cannot recognize that ‘you are on 
the wrong path,’ and so, the nightmare may recur until the situation is resolved. Nature appears to empower the strength of all 
ofits creatures. In keeping you authentic and open to growth, it asks only that you let go of what can no longer serve you.

A nightmare can be as simple as ‘leaving something behind’ while you hurry to your destination. It can be as frightening as 
actually experiencing death or dismemberment as you awaken to the idea of letting go. More than any other dream, the nightmare 
will disturb you so profoundly, that it cannot be forgotten. It is a natural mechanism, which forces you to confront the truth 
about how you are hiding from life. Once these fearful feelings are transformed into authentic power, the nightmare will not 
recur. More information on nightmares is available in the Dream Dictionary.

# Recurring Dreams

Recurring dreams are story lines or themes that repeat themselves over weeks, months and even years. Sometimes they leave you 
feeling puzzled because they seem irrational. Dreams ever seek to wake you to what you are not facing and the hero's journey of 
wellness through the dreamscape is explored in The Mythology of Sleep: The Waking Power of Dreams. Dreams have a way of forcing 
consciousness into perplexity, as an important aspect of transformation. At times, a recurring dream can be extremely frightening.
Since dreams are suggesting what you fail to acknowledge in daily life, whatever you are avoiding or not facing will continue to 
be the subject matter of your dream, until it is resolved. Like nightmares, once the puzzle is solved and the aspect is integrated
into consciousness, the dream will not recur. Even the most frightening dreams are meant to awaken you to your real nature.

# Prophetic Dreams

The ‘dream cycle’ is a lot like ‘myth cycles.’ In our ancient stories, the hero is tested in exotic landscapes, finding clues in 
fantastic places. The adventure allows them to uncover the truth about both, their identity and destiny. Similarly, the changing 
landscape and clues within a dream cycle captures the essence of why we dream. When a dream is observed to ‘morph’ into different
landscapes, the dream is described: ‘it seemed like the same dream, but then it changed…‘

# Life Changing Dreams

During periods when you are actively undergoing transformation, you will experience Great Dreams or Cosmic Dreams, which are rich
in mythological associations. They often portray a meeting with universal archetypes such as The Great Mother or Wise Man. These 
dreams affect you with such emotion and appear so vivid that you remember them for years. In many ways, you would call them life 
changing. Revisiting these dream themes to contrast the symbolism against ancient mythology can present you with a more profound 
understanding of its message. See The Mythology of Sleep: The Waking Power of Dreams.
